# MastersThesis
*Deep Learning Models for real-time Fusion Device Data Compression Algorithms*


**Abstract**

The growing demand for sustainable energy solutions has driven significant interest in the exploration of nuclear fusion, a clean and virtually limitless energy source. Among the prominent fusion experiments, the RFX-mod2 device at Consorzio RFX in Padua stands out for its very high spatial resolution magnetic diagnostic with more than 1700 sensors, along with more than 200 actuator coils independently controlled. However, the immense volume of data generated by this diagnostic system presents a significant challenge for real-time data transfer and storage, necessitating the development of an efficient data compression solution.

This thesis proposes a deep learning-based compression algorithm built on an autoencoder architecture and trained using historical data from the RFX database. The algorithm employs attention mechanisms to capture long-range dependencies and extract meaningful patterns while ensuring computational efficiency through parallelization. Strategically placing the attention blocks in the decoder reduces the dimensionality of the input to the attention function, significantly decreasing the number of model parameters, and lowering computation complexity. In addition, a distortion constraint is incorporated to limit the reconstruction error in a desired range.

The proposed algorithm outperforms widely used general-purpose compression methods, such as LFZip and SZ3, on datasets with multiple variables. Furthermore, the performance advantage grows as the error constraints are relaxed. These results demonstrate the algorithm’s potential for real-time implementation, paving the way for more efficient data handling in fusion research.
